we recently discussed the history and
performance of our newly purchased
quad-core joshan's exe x86 64 processor
that was brought to us by a mix of via
s3 graphics the Shanghai Municipal
Government and centaur the zxe plus is a
BGA CPU that can't be bought on its own
and it can't be socketed so we needed a
whole system for this piece and now it's
time to review the standalone computer
this is the chain high tone Fon tz5 61 -
b3 a complete system that we think is
designed to be sold to the Chinese
government which has mandated that it
move away from all external CPUs for any
of its internal affairs note again that
users can still build with AMD and Intel
in China but that government offices are
supposed to make a move away from that
today we'll be evaluating the entire
system value the build quality and the
performance of this $1000 computer that
contains a cpu with atom level
performance before that this video is
brought to you by Thermaltake stuff ram
RGB memory available from 3000
hertz up to 40 400 megahertz an 8
gigabyte by two configurations the
Thermaltake tough Ram uses 10
addressable RGB LEDs for bright
illumination and comes in both black and
white kits of memory learn more at the
link in the description below if you
want the whole history of the CPU of the
Josh 8 and CPU and of what is happening
in the world of crossover between
silicon politics economics and social
policy then you can check our CPU review
of the J&Z xc+ CPU it's an interesting
one to quickly recap it for you although
you should go watch the whole piece it's
a deep dive into a lot of things the
quick recap is that it's strictly for
our standpoint of performance it's
probably closer to something like atom
levels of processing power it is not as
good as a Sandy Bridge 2500 K in fact
very far from it
so the CP has got a long way to go
there's another one that's out on market
we've had trouble getting but we're
trying to it's an 8-quart jatin cpu and
that one is supposed to be apparently
closer to bulldozer
type performance but we're not sure
because we don't have it yet anyway we
started out with our desire to just grab
a homegrown Chinese CPU and test it and
see how his performance was and there
are more options to choose from for that
then you might think in the world we all
live in in the enthusiast space and sit
until an AMD and that's really it and
that's the way it's been for a long time
via is a name that many of you likely
remember cyrix is another one and both
of those companies were relevant to the
Josh Shan CPU that we looked at so it's
quite a history it's got but as far as
CPUs that support x86 there's only two
even though there are a lot of Chinese
homegrown CPUs
you've got your options between high gan
which we think is the anglicized name
and Josh Sheen so high gan is a company
that licensed and these n1 IP to produce
processors and we detailed that in part
1 of this series it's more or less the
same as first generation an epoch and
it's also been more or less killed at
this point it can't progress further
because of legislation between the US
government and China that have barred
the use of that or have have explicitly
ended that agreement so we discussed
that more there but level one text has
also been publishing ongoing tests of
the CP is if you're curious for more
data on high gan we went the opposite
direction where level 1 Tex and Wendell
whom we respect greatly have been
working on the high GaN CPUs we've been
working with DJ Shaitan CPUs and Joe
Shane is a company that was built on via
and sent our IP for several years
actually to produce increasingly
powerful laptop and desktop CPUs this is
the computer that we're working with
today there's about a thousand seventeen
dollars for this system so that's got
the CPU in it the computer is not made
by the CPU maker just like Intel and AMD
don't make their full systems the
computer rather is made by Chinua Tom
Fong and the older spelling was Tintin
ha Tom Fong so it's a pretty common
company tht F is the name and you'll
likely see in the US it's they stick to
an acronym and it's a large company that
sells many types of hardware and
software globally but for the u.s. it
mostly sticks to TVs so you may have
seen them in Best Buy or something
don't Fonz chinese website is a little
hard to navigate for an english speaker
but the system we have is the tz5 61 -
b3 and it's the only normal desktop that
we spotted with a dow shading processor
lenovo is also a major customer of
joshing and if you look at this you can
probably start to see some relationships
anyone who's been and maybe a school of
any kind your kids elementary school
your high school your college has
probably seen a front panel like this
except with red instead of blue and
there might be a reason for that
connection to lenovo's cases but we're
here to test the system as its presented
and it's presented as tht F even though
it uses a case that looks eerily similar
to ones that we've seen in school
campuses across the country so I
currently own or approximately a
thousand 17 USD and again it's about 30
199 RMB so at the time of writing it's
expensive plus cost of getting it to the
US if you were to buy it just to get
this out of the way first we don't
recommend actually buying it unless
you're also a reviewer and you're doing
something with it for content it is not
good value but we're gonna talk about
that today let's start with the
benchmarks so it did arrive upon
unpacking the system
there was one glaring issue the 220 volt
power supply had no voltage switch for
115 volt operation we were forced to
take the system apart earlier than
planned in order to connect a normal ATX
power supply and we ordered a different
tf-x PSU to install inside the system
for thermal testing later on if you
watched our recent atx12v o peace you
probably heard the form factor T FX
that's what this is and this is what
came in it like stated we don't have 220
volt outlets in our office could've
taken at home but then I'd have to
unplug the dryer so we did buy another T
FX power supply they're pretty easy to
find and they're not expensive and
they're basically made for systems
exactly like this slim desktops that are
typically in some kind of corporate
educational or government deployment
opening the system is pretty convenient
given that it's a compact proprietary
office computer the table cover comes
off and the optical drive
SSD flip up together like a cassette and
a tape player or like every school
computer we've ever worked on repairing
opening this does require breaking the
warranty see well we're not really sure
what it is we don't know if this is a
warranty seal or not because none of us
can Kendyl don't whant so anytime in the
about we can't read Chinese so let's
move on
warranty seal broke and it's easy enough
to get inside of we'll talk more system
internals after the benchmarks with the
power supply swapped and the system
functional we could swap out the stock
Linux boot drive for a Windows 10
install and get some of our usual
testing done don't worry we're gonna
come back to that boot drive in a bit
because it has a custom OS on it called
neo khylin and there's a lot of
misinformation about the various
offshoots of that OS and Patrick has
gone through the painstaking measures to
figure out what all of them are and
spent a couple days on just writing that
part of the research we'll break that
out into another video too but it's got
a special OS on of that will revisit but
we need Windows on there to do something
familiar for the audience and for our
own testing so again light CPU testing
was in part 1 including blender we had
civilization 6 turn times just for fun
we did some Cinebench stuff some power
consumption but in parts here we're
covering the whole system so that
includes a 2 gigabyte r7 430
it's an AM d GPU it's quite old and it
wasn't a high-end when it came out four
years ago either this was never meant to
be a gaming PC to be fair to th TF but
it's so priced like one and ultimately
our testing options are limited because
we mostly work on gaming systems so we
couldn't just run our normal CPU test
bench and walk away like we might do
otherwise we can't run our normal GPU
test bench this thing had to be somewhat
customized for the hardware that's in it
because it's also low-end the first test
we tried was the Final Fantasy 14 shadow
brainers benchmark final fantasy xiv is
an MMO that launched at its current
iteration in 2013 so the graphical
requirements are fairly low even for the
recent shadow brainers expansion the
game is minimum required AMD G
he's listed as an AR 7 260x and the
minimum CPU as a 2.4 gigahertz I five
fortunately we've got an r7 430 and two
gigahertz zxe + quad-core for the CPU
we ran the dx11 bench at 1920 by 1080 on
the high preset which was ambitious and
scored 1415 points if you don't know
what this means the software tries to
help out by informing us that it's low
thanks we had no idea to clarify what
they really mean is unplayable oh it's a
slideshow trying again with the lowest
preset for desktops standard again at
1080p we got a score of 24 76 with an
average frame rate of 16 point 6 8 FPS
to clarify that's awfully close to the
60 FPS frame time division of sixteen
point six 67 milliseconds and the unit
we're using here is frame rate not frame
time so again that's sixteen point six
eight frames per second not frames is in
frame times the reported minimum frame
rate was three yeah like the single
digit that's reported via the benchmarks
log file rather than our usual login
method because frankly more overhead
seems unfair but we believe it based on
the stuttering you could almost sort of
play this game at a resolution below
1080 if you didn't stare directly at
particle effects too often total loading
time for the five scenes was 55 points
you seconds or 11 seconds on average not
as bad as it could be but this is off of
an SSD this benchmark is free to
download if you'd like to play along at
home and compare the points but for now
we can scratch Final Fantasy 14 off the
list of playable games for this PC next
up was the oldest game we still
regularly test GTA 5
we ran one pass at 1080p with all
settings at normal after which the game
refused to cooperate and launch in
full-screen mode again but one was
enough to get the picture average frame
rate was a shockingly good ish 34.8 FBS
but the 1% lows for 5.5 FPS and 0.1%
Louis were 2.4 FPS we're talking frame
times averaging twenty eight point seven
milliseconds at best with some really
long stutters to frame times at 416
milliseconds at worst a few frames held
for
half a second and that's a really long
study so to use a technical phrase it it
uh it sucked constant texture pop-in and
long painful hitches while flying made
it hard to even watch for what it's
worth GTA 5 warned us every time we
launch the game that our hardware didn't
meet the minimum specs and we obviously
knew that too but it illustrates the
point this isn't a gaming PC it is $1000
though
finally we ran 3dmark to at least get
some number on the screen that we
compared to other hardware the overall
score for the standard 1080p firestrike
test was 12 32 with sub scores of 4 21
23 31 and 1472 for combined physics and
graphics respectively that translates to
a frame rate of 2 there in the combined
test 7.4 for physics the cpu test 7.3
for graphics 1 and 5.7 FPS for graphics
to GT 1 is more core intensive GT 2 is
more men are memory intensive so this
makes sense
the CPS score was really dragging though
so you could build obviously a much
better computer than this for $1000 even
if you're in China Intel and AMD are
still there it's not like you can't buy
them or you aren't supposed to buy them
the only difference is that within a
couple years the Chinese government
wants to move away from them but if
you're an enthusiast you could still
build with Andy or Intel CPUs so there's
really no value here in general but
that's not the long-term play the
long-term play for the again Shawn
high-backed Josh Shane is not to
immediately or directly compete with AMD
or Intel it's so that China can have its
own CPU and give them that government
money's behind it given that there's a
dubious history of intellectual property
there's a decent chance that the company
making the CPU can catch up a whole lot
faster than the Trailblazers of AMD or
Intel took to get to the point they are
now it's always easier when you're not
first
unless you're a YouTube commenter in
which case there's probably several of
you who said first already but this is a
matter of while joshing is already
getting up to eight core parts that are
supposed to be on parity with
and that's pretty far jump from where
this was and this was one of the earlier
generations whereas there's some newer
stuff for 2020 that we haven't been able
to get yet but we're trying so you have
to keep the scope of the project in mind
which is that there's a greater play
here than competing now today anyway
moving on to inside of the system next
in the process of replacing the power
supply having the case open gave us the
opportunity to check out the rest of the
internals earlier than planned even with
the case as small as it is there's still
a surprising amount of empty space
inside especially since the hard drive
bay was left empty there's a single 256
gigabyte 4c brand SSD which we've never
heard of before this and a CD DVD RW
Drive both connected via SATA hardware
info 64 reports SATA 2 speeds at 3
gigabits per second which lines up with
the chipsets clean specs memory is two
sticks of a data 1600 megahertz CL 11
ddr3 ram FSB speed is 1333 megahertz
boss speed is 333 megahertz CPU clocks
can range from by four at one point
three three gigahertz two by six at two
gigahertz and RAM runs at a multiplier
of two point four or 800 megahertz but
1600 megahertz since it's DDR the GPU is
connected to a full length PCIe slot
there's also one PCIe by one and one PCI
slot that are available on the board for
older devices graphics handled by the
previously-mentioned to r7 430 but this
motherboard is equipped with an unused
in this case integrated graphics chip
courtesy of its namesake the via VX 11
pH chipset yes that same via the chip
holds basically everything except the
CPU cores the memory controller is the
most noteworthy and that's a part that
moved to the CPU years ago for Intel and
AMD like more than a decade ago it
supports two slots max it's single
channel the chips had also hosts IO only
to say the two ports supported but three
USB three it hosts PCI and PCIe
connections six lanes max max
configuration by four and an IG P which
is a via C at 640 slash 645 the die and
the packet
for the chipset are both significantly
larger than the actual CPU although the
TDP is only 8.8 watts
compared to the CPUs 18 watts so it only
gets a passive aluminum heatsink for the
chipset rather than the CPUs tiny heat
sink fan combo we don't have much faith
in TDP as a means of measurement from
any company but hopefully joshan's
numbers are at least internally
consistent both the chipset and the CPU
are BGA soldered directly to the board
and neither have an IHS putting bare
silicon in contact with their heat sinks
there's a single Ethernet port for
Internet connectivity handled by a
gigabit Realtek chip and we were able to
pull down files from our server at the
usual 111 megabytes per second speed
that we get from gigabit cart note that
th TF has chosen a Taiwanese Realtek
part over an Intel part which is the
common choice on a lot of enthusiasts
grade motherboards the C 640 and 645
also known as the chrome line of s3 GPUs
developed by s3 graphics that's another
old name was made while they were owned
by via prior to their sale in 2011 which
we talked about briefly in part 1 a
search of the Microsoft Update catalog
something that we do in our free time
for fun implies that these GPUs were
released sometime in 2012 after s3 sale
to HTC these 640 and 645 aren't really
differentiated the C 640 or 645 is how
they're collectively identified
everywhere 640 / 645 included in CPU Z
the IGP and our system is fully
functional but th TF evidently decided
that an 8 year old GPU that hasn't had
any windows updates for drivers since
2015 wasn't up to snuff despite using
its own OS we bring the GPU up
specifically because there's some
uncertainty as to whether Jason is still
using s3's Chrome based I GP s some
newer ZX c and z XE plus boards use the
jousting developed zx100 as chipset as
an alternative to V as V X 11 pH which
does have some legitimate upgrades like
additional PCIe lanes and dual channel
memory support but the IGP may be the
same the model isn't listed it seems
likely that Josh Aten would continue to
use or at least iterate on the C 645
rather than starting from scratch
especially if via still has the rights
to the s3 GPU IP developed under that
either way the chipset in this system is
openly made by via and s3 and the
discrete GPU is made by AMD so this
system isn't as close to 100% Chinese as
Jane's more recent SOC offerings the
cooling solution for the CPU is
absolutely minimal just a tiny aluminum
heatsink and fan that look like together
they might barely cool an x5 70 chipset
which is nearly the same power
consumption by the way well cover
thermals more later but for now suffice
to say that the heatsink barely gets
warm even under 100% CPU load we talked
power consumption the CPU review but the
entire system is under 50 watts total
system power with a heavy CPU workload
so it's not much concerned the CPU fan
is also the only fan other than the GPUs
and the power supplies the latter of
which is solely responsible for
exhausting air from the case making the
whole system nearly silent it all goes
through the power supply at some point
seriously even the CPU fan is inaudible
with air conditioning running a P via
300 watt supply we bought to replace the
original great wall 200 watt supply
generates most of the noise in the
system so we can't say what the actual
noise of the original system would have
been with complete fairness because we
can test that power supply under full
CPU and GPU load we measured it to be
36.2 DBA at 20 inch distance from the
front approximately where a user would
be seated with the tiny fans wearing
away it really wasn't that loud at idle
the noise level is much the same but
again the power supply's annoys your
than anything else the four chords exe
plus has an 18 watt TDP as does a vias
CPU that it's based on or the 8 core
simply doubles this for a 35 watt TDP we
still say TDP is basically made of but
even so this is an extremely low power
part our power measurements barely
registered the CPU on the ammeter with
power consumption up to about 0.7 amps
on the 4 pin connector the stock power
supply was only 200 watts and lacked a 4
pin CPU power connector so tht F simply
split off the plus 4 pins from the ATX
xx + 4 pin connector and rerouted them
which is more than enough in this
instance the dinky CPU heatsink
keeps things reasonably cool even under
full load assuming vias perk or thermal
sensors are accurate using the prime95
and fur mark workload we usually do as a
torture task for PC cases we measured an
average CPU DT under load of twenty
eight point seven degrees Celsius over
ambient that translates to a raw
temperature reading of about 50 degrees
across all cores I don't want a hundred
percent load with this heatsink the GPU
is just a regular old r7 430 with a
low-profile design so it didn't fare as
well but it still maintained an average
of 52 point one degrees over ambient
which is fine there are no case fans but
the tf-x power supply exhaust the air as
aggressively as it can which seems
intended given the fan orientation there
is ventilation at the front of the case
with an optional fan mount as well as a
vent on the side of the case that
together offer all the air that this
system ever needs for cooling itself
overclocking if we look in BIOS is not
possible at least not on this systems
BIOS options are limited to enabling or
disabling ports selecting the primary
GPU and other equally vanilla features
luckily for us anyway UEFI boot is one
of the options that's in here if you
some reason bought this and then wanted
Windows the BIOS does repeatedly refer
to via and via features if any further
confirmation was needed that zxc is a
thinly-veiled via CPU and again part one
for more detail on that the BIOS is
dated 2017 a year after the zxe plus is
launched and right before the kx5
thousands end of year release the full
system that was shipped to us consists
of a PC monitor keyboard and mouse all
of these are standard office fare the
monitor is a thk 23 e8 1hg
a name which turns up absolutely no
results on Google yet still manages to
keep the illegible monitor naming scheme
it measures 23.8 inches diagonally it
has BGA DVI DisplayPort and HDMI inputs
no speakers it runs at 60 Hertz 75 watts
some lower resolutions and it supports
120 volt input without a special adapter
we're not monitor reviewers and we don't
want to be but the display isn't pure
garbage and it isn't just a throw away
the stand however is but viewing angles
are good and the
are narrow this is one of the lightest
cheapest built monitors we've ever
worked with and it feels like it's
barely held together physically but the
display itself is actually fine and
we'll probably use it for thermal test
benches th TF manufactures its own
displays and in fact they license the
Westinghouse name to sell them in the US
the keyboards model number is DK 35 90
you and the mouse is the DM 35 80 you
the mouse is an extremely generic two
button optical design that wouldn't look
out of place at any point in the past 20
years the keyboard is a low-profile
rubber dome design with a US layout and
Chinese text on the back siding the
usual FCC regulations and Microsoft's
trademark for the windows keys this
particular all-in-one system is only
sold in China but tht F evidently cares
about being able to sell their
peripherals in the u.s. our sets change
to ignore that as for who would pay a
thousand dollars for a system that can
barely run anything it's probably the
same answer for every country and that's
the government this is where just like
part one we have to issue a quick
disclaimer we're not here to provide any
political commentary or social
commentary on the situation just the
facts on how the technology is being
handled by much larger political
entities then we could have any impact
on there's a distinct difference we're
only providing information here this
section will deep dive into China's
upcoming alternatives to Windows and
other traditional operating systems like
the common Linux variants out there the
Chinese market is flooded with
variations that are all mostly named
Kylin that we're talking about today but
they're all variations of that naming so
it's very confusing to put it all
together and most of the entangled web
of operating systems that were
referencing here have been in some form
improperly linked and other articles
online so we've tried to correct that as
best we can
this should become a fairly complete
source detailing the different khylin
distributions in at least their most
basic elements of how they're marketed
what connections it has with the other
one some of them are connected with
Ubuntu and so forth as mentioned in part
one the Chinese government is planning
to use homegrown Chinese technology to
fully supplant u.s. hardware and
software and it's government offices by
2022 and not to be confused with the
consumer market there and it's for a
variety of reasons again politics isn't
really our
focus here most of the reasons relate to
ongoing trade disputes between the two
countries that we won't really get into
because the US government has banned
sales of certain products like Xeon CPUs
intended for super computer use to the
Chinese government by the u.s. suppliers
like Intel this th TF office computer
has minimum foreign involvement ignoring
the Texas origins of a CPU architecture
and it comes pre-installed with neo
khylin Linux
despite being compatible with Windows
the vast majority of computers in th TFS
China catalogue come with normal intel
and AMD processors and normal Windows
licenses this one is specifically
designed for we think the government
market where China's government agencies
are forced to replace their foreign
Hardware at some point in the next few
years
khylin is an interesting subject in
itself the name is an anglicized version
of Chi lean Kirin beer and the unicorn
from Monster Hunter are also named after
the same animal khylin the OS is
actually a group of different operating
systems that are developed by the
National University of Defense
technology predictably this is a
state-owned organization and it's been
developed since at least 2001 the first
iteration was based on and almost
entirely identical to open BSD which is
a unix-like operating system and from
the beginning all of the versions of
khylin have been intentionally skinned
to look like Microsoft Windows such that
it would help aid workers in
transitioning from Windows into the
local made operating system because it
minimizes the amount you'd have to learn
at some point the open BSD based
operating system was abandoned and the
Linux based khylin 3.0 was released it's
difficult to pinpoint the exact release
date but it must have been in or before
2009 in 2010 the nu DT partnered with
China standard software or cs2 see the
makers of neo shine Linux to fork neo
khylin Linux the distro which came with
our desktop at some point development of
the main neo Kylin linux distro was
handed over to Tianjin khylin
information technology co limited or TK
c and remains in development to this day
under the name of in kochi lean a name
that translates the galaxy khylin this
main branch is often referred
to as plain old khylin in English at
least but the translation helps to avoid
confusion that's because there's a lot
of others like John B ouchy Lane which
translates to winning bid khylin and is
what English speakers typically called
neo Kyle nee Oak Island is based on Red
Hat Linux so we assume galaxy khylin is
as well there's a widely cited report by
The Wall Street Journal that we can't
read because we refuse to make an
account on a paywall newspaper website
but it's also referenced elsewhere and
apparently that said that 40% of Dell
pcs came with me oak island installed
installation on pre belts is a huge part
of neo kylene's claims success we know
this because see STC bragged about the
report on its own website note that this
report specifically names knee Oak
Island not galaxy khylin or Ubuntu Kylin
which has confused some outlets like the
verge our desktop came with neo khylin 7
the latest public version galaxy khylin
by the way is on version 10.2 and it's
skins to look like Windows 7 while we've
seen older screenshots skins to look
like Vista or XP the developers are
fully open about their intention to make
a Windows like OS galaxy khylin for
example openly advertises this as a
feature we mentioned Ubuntu Kylin or
yochi lean a minute ago this is yet
another separate distro that was
launched in 2013 and has had updates as
recently as October 2019 it's an
official collaboration between the
developers canonical and the Nu DT this
is perhaps the easiest of the kyln
operating systems to Google in the West
but it isn't khylin or knee Oak Island
it's explicitly different Ubuntu Kylin
didn't fail we went to khylin is not
older than me Oak Island an Ubuntu Kylin
is not the original OS names khylin if
someone says all three of these things
in one article like perhaps the verge
and it's 2017 expose on its own
intelligence they're wrong Ubuntu Kylin
is partnered with galaxy khylin and uses
a version of their logo just to make
things extra confusing versions of both
galaxy khylin and Ubuntu Kylin are
available to download from their
respective websites if you're curious
about them and want to try it out
yourself
as stated earlier the Chinese government
is trying to rid the government offices
of foreign technology and software by
2022 the Kyle
family has found itself in an extremely
strong position since its Chinese
developed and advertises compatibility
with Chinese built CPUs not just the x86
64 couching and high GaN ships but also
the long-chain mips chip the fate hung
spark chip and the clinton arm chip in
december of 2019 tkc and CS to see how
the press conference to announce that
together they were forming a new company
which translates to khylin software co
limited to once again merge the two
branches of khylin into one as of yet
unnamed domestic operating system
combining the strengths of neo Cullen's
hardware compatibility and galaxy kinds
of mobile server and desktop variants it
will probably have khylin in the name as
well if you feel the need to research
any of the saga on your own will direct
you to a ZDNet article that we can put
on the screen this is the single most
coherent explanation that we've seen of
this messy concoction so far some form
of khylin is also the current operating
system by the way of the chinese tiana
who won a and tiana ha to a super
computers tiana ha to a was in the
number four spot on the top 500
supercomputers list as of november 2019
and held the number one spot from 2013
to 2015 top 500 and other sources cite
the OS as simply linux thailand this is
based on a 2013 report by jack dong
guerra compiler of the top 500 list and
based on dong garre's wording and the
number of other top 500 supercomputers
using RHEL or the RHEL based CentOS we
would logically assume that tiene 2a is
running galaxy khylin however during a
2014 canonical keynote founder Mark
Shuttleworth presented a slide with the
text quote world's fastest computer runs
Ubuntu OpenStack with an Ubuntu Kylin
logo on it a slide show from 2013
OpenStack summit on the same subject
uses the Neo khylin logo with a cloud on
every page there is a neo khylin cloud
OS by the way a blog post on the
official Ubuntu website says TN aha -
the world's fastest supercomputer runs
on Ubuntu Kylin and quote nu DT designed
and built en hua - which runs on its own
chi-ling cloud Linux operating system in
the same article our best guess is that
galaxy khylin runs tiene ho - and that a
boon to khylin can be run on TN huh -
we're not super computer experts or
Linux as experts but this is kind of how
we've been able to boil down the
confusion this is now doubly complicated
by the fact that tiene huh - a switch to
homegrown matrix 2000 128 core Ras C
accelerators in 2017 rather than the
planned Intel Xeon Phi's due to the US
embargo is on those parts so th to a
Ron's quote a heterogeneous computing
software stack so after all of that you
might be wondering okay well why our
experience with neo khylin was
underwhelming we spent a significant
amount of time trying to figure out just
how to switch the locale to en us' and
we also tried to get basic things
installed like steam for example we
couldn't get the RHEL or the sanitized
versions of steam working which limited
our options as a gaming focused website
at least as of now there are a couple of
pre-installed games for example
solitaire chess and one that's called
mines we're not sure what that is yet
but there's nothing unique other than
that this is just a Linux distro that's
trying to look comfortingly like Windows
7 and it's by its own admission that
it's doing that for productivity the WPS
and Fox at office suites are installed
so you've got something basic there
under appearance options there's also a
classic mode which brings back the
previously publicized XP skin from the
old Ernie oak island releases as far as
the computer then because the CP is not
socketable you can only buy it with the
system or with a motherboard in the
least there's absolutely no reason
anyone should buy this computer for
personal use especially in the West's
where you've got plenty of options for
even lower prices but even in China it's
over priced at $1000 it just it doesn't
make sense for personal use for
non-government office or work use it's
just the only reason this really exists
as far as we can tell is to target the
government offices where they're being
forced to switch off of
external hardware and software at some
point so specs wise this is massively
overpriced joshan's CPUs are becoming
promising the newer ones that we don't
have yet like the eight core are
competitive with older and the bulldozer
chips which at least as far as we
understand now which although they were
a bit of a joke and a meme in this
community that's a big jump so the older
zxe plus is a rehash of a lower power vs
cpu in the vein of an Intel Atom and
everything else in the system is built
around that the chipset handles a ton of
the computer's functionality it's old
its outdated the memory controller isn't
even on the CPU the IGP
lacks the performance or the driver
support to the extent that thdf felt it
necessary to install on our 7 4:30 in
the system and the system is basically
it's a fun novelty to play with but the
idea of spending a thousand dollars on a
system for well really any use that we
can think of in an hour core use cases
in our audience just makes it obviously
not worth it it's not even close the
best thing you get out of it is in OS
that feels comfortingly similar to
Windows 7 the peripherals are functional
they're very generic there's nothing
wrong with them really but they're also
not higher tier gaming peripherals
modders actually surprisingly fine other
than the stand being extremely cheap the
price then is just because of the no
foreign tech policy that's being put in
place by the government there's one
other PC in the same line as this one on
th TFS website and it comes equipped
with a run-of-the-mill 4 core 4th red
bulldozer chip that's an 8/10 8770 and
Nvidia's GT 720 and also Windows 7
license but it still only costs about
six hundred ninety dollars so
significantly cheaper woefully outdated
and overpriced but that's a much better
deal for the performance than this
system is and we'll keep an eye out for
higher-end joshan based systems in the
future to see whether they start
approaching Intel and AMD and price to
performance this is going to be an
emerging battleground as things advance
and it'll be interesting at least from a
technology standpoint to see how it
develops but
obviously we wouldn't recommend buying
this computer it was interesting for a
review but that's about where we recap
it that's it for this one watch part 1
for more information on the history
behind the cpu and why it exists and
what's going to happen and you can
support us directly in this type of
content if I going to
patreon.com/scishow and access or store
doctor in his ex it's done that thanks
for watching we'll see you all next time
[Music]